# Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK for Android Developer Guide

## Introduction

The Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK is a simple to use high level API, providing a collection of classes and functions for scanning and parsing 1D and 2D barcodes from your mobile device’s camera or other image sources like your photo library.

Integrate our **Ready-To-Use UI** (RTU UI) with only a few lines of code. Benefit from a proven user experience, super fast integration time and customizable colors and texts to match your brand. Or dive into our **Classical UI Components** and build your fully customized scanning experience.


## Requirements

### Operating System
- Android 4.1 (API Level 16) and higher

### Hardware
- Rear-facing camera with autofocus
- Supported [CPUs and Architectures (ABIs)](https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/arch.html): `armeabi-v7`, `arm64-v8a`, `x86`, `x86_64`

### No Internet Connection Required
**The Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK works completely offline.** It doesn't even contain any networking code.
This can easily be verified by routing all networking traffic coming from the app through a proxy.
All data generated by the Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK is only stored on the end users device and in absolutely no case ever transferred to a server / cloud service controlled by us.
You as the customer will need to take care of uploading the scans / data to your backend, if desired.

## Example Apps
👉 Please [See our example project](https://github.com/doo/scanbot-barcode-scanner-sdk-example-android) on GitHub

## Release History and Changelog

👉 See [Release History And Changelog](https://github.com/doo/scanbot-barcode-scanner-sdk-example-android/wiki/Release-History-and-Changelog)


## Getting Started

👉 [Getting started](https://github.com/doo/scanbot-barcode-scanner-sdk-example-android/wiki/Getting-started)

## Get in Touch
If you need further information or are interested in licensing Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK please reach out to our sales experts via sdk@scanbot.io.


# Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK Example App for Android

This example app shows how to integrate the [Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK](https://scanbot.io/sdk) for Android.


## What is Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK?

Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK is a simple to use high level API, providing a collection of classes and functions 
for scanning and parsing 1D and 2D barcodes from your mobile device's camera or other image sources like your photo library.


### Supported Barcode Types

- 1D codes: Code 39, Code 93, Code 128, Codabar, UPC-E, ITF, EAN-8, EAN-13, UPC-A
- 2D codes: QR-Code, Aztec, PDF-417, Data Matrix

Also check out our blog post [Types of barcodes](https://scanbot.io/blog/types-of-barcodes-and-their-usage/).


### Supported Data Parsers:

- From PDF-417 barcodes: AAMVA data coded on US driver's licenses, Boarding Pass data, German Medical Certificates data, ID Cards data, 
- From Data Matrix codes: XML data coded in Medical Plans (German Medikationsplan).
- From QR-Codes: VCard data, SEPA payform data.

For more details please refer to the SDK documentation.


## Documentation

👉 [Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK documentation](https://github.com/doo/scanbot-barcode-scanner-sdk-example-android/wiki/Getting-started)


## How to run this example app?

👉 Follow the [Getting started](https://github.com/doo/scanbot-barcode-scanner-sdk-example-android/wiki/Getting-started) Guide

## Please note

The Scanbot Barcode Scanner SDK will run without a license for one minute per session!

After the trial period is over all SDK functions as well as the UI components will stop working.
You have to restart the app to get another trial period.

To get an unrestricted "no-strings-attached" 30 day trial license, please submit the [Trial License Form](https://scanbot.io/sdk/trial.html) on our website.

